---
title: Quotes
tags: ["reference", "post"]
layout: post
permalink: "/post/{{ title | slugify }}/"
---

A collections of quotes, plucked from many different sources. Some of these match my own opinions. Some of these go completely against. Some of these aren't even opinions - just dialogues or passages or sentences that stuck out to me. In effect, this is a living scrapbook of amusing compositions of words.

> Within the 'symphony of voices,' Kepler believed that the speed of
> each planet corresponds to certain notes in the Latinate musical scale
> popular in his day - do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, ti, do. He claimed that
> in the harmony of the spheres, the tones of Earth are fa and mi, that
> the Earth is forever humming fa and mi, and that they stand in a
> straightforward way for the Latin word for famine.
>
> "With this symphony of voices man can play through the eternity of
> time in less than an hour, and can taste in small measure the delight
> of God, the Supreme Artist... I yield freely to the sacred frenzy...
> the die is cast, and I am writing the book to be read either now or by
> posterity, it matters not. It can wait a century for a reader, as God
> Himself has waited 6,000 years for a witness." - Johannes Kepler, Collected Works
> 
> *- Cosmos, Carl Sagan*

> A book is made from a tree. It is an assemblage of flat, flexible
> parts (still called 'leaves') imprinted with dark pigmented squiggles.
> One glance at it and you hear the voice of another person - perhaps
> someone dead for thousands of years. Across the millennia, the author
> is speaking, clearly and silently, inside your head, directly to you.
> Writing is perhaps the greatest of human inventions, binding together
> people, citizens of distant epochs, who never knew one another.
>
> Books break the shackles of time, proof that humans can work magic.
> 
> *- Cosmos, Carl Sagan*

> The nitrogen in our DNA, the calcium in our teeth, the iron in our
> blood, the carbon in our apple pies were made in the interiors of
> collapsing stars. We are made of starstuff.
> 
> *- Cosmos, Carl Sagan*

> National boundaries are not evident when we view the Earth from space.
> Fanatical ethnic or religious or national chauvinisms are a little
> difficult to maintain when we see our planet as a fragile blue
> crescent fading to become an inconspicuous point of light against the
> bastion and citadel of the stars.
> 
> *- Cosmos, Carl Sagan*

> 'I am, alas, a man of leisure,' he said softly. I have made the
> economies in my time and I have now the means to enjoy the life of
> idleness.'
>
> 'No, no, you would be unwise to do so. I can assure you, it is not so
> gay as it sounds.' He sighed. 'How true is the saying that man was
> forced to invent work in order to escape the strain of having to
> think.'
> 
> *- Agatha Christie, Death on the Nile*

> He was a lonely ghost uttering a truth that nobody would ever hear.
> But so long as he uttered it, in some obscure way the continuity was
> not broken. It was not by making yourself heard but by staying sane
> that you carried on the human heritage.
>  
> *- 1984, George Orwell*

> The aim of the High is to remain where they are. The aim of the Middle
> is to change places with the High. The aim of the Low, when they have
> an aim - for it is an abiding characteristic of the Low that they are
> too much crushed by drudgery to be more than intermittently conscious
> of anything outside their daily lives - is to abolish all distinctions
> and create a society in which all men shall be equal. Thus, throughout
> history, a struggle which is the same in its main outlines recurs over
> and over again.
>  
> *- 1984, George Orwell*

> Observe the rays of the sun in the composition of the rainbow, the
> colours of which are generated by the falling rain, when each drop in
> its descent takes every colour of the bow.
> 
> *- A Treatise on Painting - Leonardo da Vinci*

> A physical shortcoming could produce a kind of mental excess. The
> process, it seemed, was reversible. Mental excess could produce, for
> its own purposes, the voluntary blindness and deafness of deliberate
> solitude, the artificial impotence of asceticism.
> 
> *-Brave New World, Aldous Huxley*

> For of course, some sort of general idea they must have, if they were
> to do their work intelligently - though as little of one, if they were
> to be good and happy members of society, as possible.
> 
> *-Brave New World, Aldous Huxley*

> Actual happiness looks pretty squalid in comparison with the
> over-compensations for misery. And, of course, stability isn't nearly
> so spectacular as instability. And being contented has none of the
> glamour of a good fight against misfortune, none of of the
> picturesqueness of a struggle with temptation, or a fatal overthrow by
> passion or doubt. Happiness is never grand.
> 
> *-Brave New World, Aldous Huxley*

> The current ruling ontology denies any possibility of a social
> causation of mental illness. The chemico-biologization of mental
> illness is of course strictly commensurate with its de-politicization.
> Considering mental illness an individual chemico-biological problem
> has enormous benefits for capitalism. First, it reinforces Capital's
> drive towards atomistic individualization (you are sick because of
> your brain chemistry). Second, it provides an enormously lucrative
> market in which multinational pharmaceutical companies can peddle
> their pharmaceuticals (we can cure you with our SSRIs). It goes
> without saying that all mental illnesses are neurologically
> instantiated, but this says nothing about their causation. If it is
> true, for instance, that depression is constituted by low serotonin
> levels, what still needs to be explained is why particular individuals
> have low levels of serotonin. This requires a social and political
> explanation; and the task of repoliticizing mental illness is an
> urgent one if the left wants to challenge capitalist realism.
> 
> *- Mark Fisher, Capitalist Realism*

> Some of Nietzsche's most prescient pages are those in which he
> describes the 'oversaturation of an age with history'. 'It leads an
> age into a dangerous mood of irony in regard to itself', he wrote in
> Untimely Meditations, and subsequently into the even more dangerous
> mood of cynicism', in which 'cosmopolitan fingering', a detached
> spectatorialism, replaces engagement and involvement. This is the
> condition of Nietzsche's Last Man, who has seen everything, but is
> decadently enfeebled precisely by this excess of (self) awareness.
> 
> *- Mark Fisher, Capitalist Realism*

> Every lie we tell incurs a debt to the truth. And sooner or later,
> that debt is paid.
> 
> *- Chernobyl, 2019*

> Elizabeth also wept and was unhappy, but hers also was the misery of
> innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over the fair moon, for a
> while hides but cannot tarnish its brightness.
> 
>  *- Mary Shelly, Frankenstein*

> Nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings
> have been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness
> of inaction and certainty which follows and deprives the soul both of
> hope and fear.
> 
>  *- Mary Shelly, Frankenstein*

> We have come to identify ourselves with the goal, we have become
> committed to pursue it at all costs rather than admit defeat.
>
> Determined to retain a positive outlook, we remove naysayers from our
> lives, as the self-help industry instructs us. This may make for a
> proud slogan for social-media profiles -- a snappy, self-assured
> 'Ignore the h8ers' -- but it can be a dangerous folly. By removing or
> ignoring the sources of honest feedback, we create a neat means of
> fuelling the downward spiral of self-deception.
>
> When we proudly denounce those who would undermine our self-belief, we
> emulate a model of strength we have been sold principally through the
> biographies of successful, strong entrepreneurs. We equate persistent
> commitment and the ability to laugh at one's detractors with a recipe
> for success. But this is a lie. We believe it because we are told it
> through many channels, but its source springs from a powerful select
> few who boast about their life stories as they perceive them.
> 
> *- Derren Brown, Happy: Why More or Less Everything is Absolutely Fine*

> It is hard to think about your past without tidying it up into a kind
> of story: one in which you are cast as the hero or victim.
>
> Invariably we ignore the regular dice-rolls of chance or random luck;
> successful high-flyers are typically prone to ignoring the interplay
> of blind fortune when they credit their career trajectories to their
> canny business sense or brute self-belief. We tell the story we want
> to tell, and we live out those stories every day.
> 
> *- Derren Brown, Happy: Why More or Less Everything is Absolutely Fine*


> It's easy to become as obsessed with online metrics as money. It can
> then be tempting to use those metrics to decide what to work on next,
> without taking into account how shallow those metrics really are. An
> Amazon rank doesn't tell you whether someone read your book twice and
> loved it so much she passed it on to a friend. Instagram likes don't
> tell you whether an image you made stuck with someone for a month. A
> stream count doesn't equal an actual human being showing up to your
> live show and dancing.
> 
> *- Austin Kleon, Keep Going*

> Lots of people want to be the noun without doing the verb. They want
> the job title without the work.
>
> If you pick the wrong noun to aspire to, you'll be stuck with the
> wrong verb, too. When people use the word "creative" as a job title,
> it not only falsely divides the world into "creatives" and
> "non-creatives," but also implies that the work of a "creative" is
> "being creative."
>
> But being creative is never an end; it is a means to something else.
> Creativity is just a tool.
> 
> *- Austin Kleon, Keep Going*

> Dusk, like a palpable entity, entered the room, and the dancing circle
> of yellow light about the torches etched itself into the ever sharper
> distinction against the gathering greyness beyond.
> 
> *- Isaac Asimov, Nightfall*

> He had long ago decided that no worthwhile woman could ever be
> seduced; you could present the possibility to them, but you had to
> leave it to them to do the seducing for you, and if they weren't so
> minded, there was very little you could do to change their outlook.
> 
> *- Isaac Asimov, Nightfall*

> Why had it happened? she asked herself. Why? Why? Why? Were we so
> evil? Had we strayed so far from the path of the gods that we needed
> to be punished this way?
>
> No. No! There are no gods; there was no punishment. Of that much,
> Siferra was still certain. She had no doubt that this was simply the
> working of blind fate, brought about by the impersonal movements of
> inaminate and uncaring worlds and suns, drawing together every two
> thousand years in dispassionate coincidence.
>
> That was all. An accident.
> 
> *- Isaac Asimov, Nightfall*


> We think we know what we're doing. We have always thought so. We never
> seem to acknowledge that we have been wrong in the past, and so might
> be wrong in the future. Instead, each generation writes off earlier
> errors as the result of bad thinking by less able minds - and then
> confidently embarks on fresh errors of its own.
> 
> *- Prey, Michael Crichton*

> He had no right to all the grace and bounty of this world, earned and
> maintained by the work, the devotion, the faithfulness of its people.
> Para- dise is for those who make Paradise. He did not belong.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> He went on writing letters to Urras, even when he mailed none of them
> at all. The fact of writing for someone who might understand - who
> might have understood - made it possible for him to write, to think.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> You can't crush ideas by suppressing them. You can only crush them by
> ignoring them. By refusing to think, refusing to change.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> "If you can see a thing whole," he said, "it seems that it's always
> beautiful. Planets, lives\.... But close up, a world's all dirt and
> rocks. And day to day, life's a hard job, you get tired, you lose the
> pattern. You need distance, interval. The way to see how beautiful the
> earth is, is to see it as the moon. The way to see how beautiful life
> is, is from the vantage point of death."
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> "There's a point, around age twenty," Bedap said. "when you have to
> choose whether to be like everybody else the rest of your life, or to
> make a virtue of your peculiarities."
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> When they sang, both the exhilaration and the fear became a blind
> exaltation; his eyes filled with tears. It was deep, in the deep
> streets, softened by open air and by distances, indistinct,
> overwhelming, that lifting up of thousands of voices in one song. The
> singing of the front of the march, far away up the street, and of the
> endless crowds coming on behind, was put out of phase by the distance
> the sound must travel, so that the melody seemed always to be lagging
> and catching up with itself, like a canon, and all the parts of the
> song where being sung at one time, in the same moment, though each
> singer sang the tune as a line from beginning to end.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> "But I'm luckier. A scientist can pretend that his work isn't himself,
> it's merely the impersonal truth. An artist can't hide behind the
> truth. He can't hide anywhere."
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> If you evade suffering you also evade the chance of joy. Pleasure you
> may get, or pleasures, but you will not be fulfilled. You will not
> know what it is to come home.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> "Where does your soul go, when you die in Hell?"
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> "And you will come back," Takver said. Her eyes were very dark, a soft
> darkness, like the darkness of a forest at night.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> A night-blooming flower from some unimaginable world had opened among
> the dark leaves and was sending out its perfume with patient,
> unavailing sweetness to attract some unimaginable moth trillions of
> miles away, in a garden on a world circling another star. The
> sunlights differ, but there is only one darkness.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Dispossesed*

> ..the fossil record of a few million years ago is replete with a great
> variety of manlike forms, an interesting number of which are found
> with holes or fractures in their skulls. Some of these injuries may
> have been inflicted by leopards or hyenas; but Leakey and the South
> African anatomist Raymond Dart believed that many of them were
> inflicted by our ancestors. In Pliocene/Pleistocene times there was
> almost certainly a vigorous competition among many manlike forms, of
> which only one line survived-the tool experts, the line that led to
> us. What role killing played in that competition remains an open
> question. The gracile Australopithecines were erect, agile, fleet and
> three and a half feet tall: "little people." I sometimes wonder
> whether our myths about gnomes, trolls, giants and dwarfs could
> possibly be a genetic or cultural memory of those times.
> 
> *- Carl Sagan, The Dragons of Eden*

> Even at the time that the Eden story was written, the development of
> cognitive skills was seen as endowing man with godlike powers and
> awesome responsibilities. God says: "Behold, the man is become as one
> of us, to know good and evil, and now, lest he put forth his hand, and
> take also of the Tree of Life, and eat, and live forever" (Genesis
> 3:22), he must be driven out of the Garden. God places cherubim with a
> flaming sword east of Eden to guard the Tree of Life from the
> ambitions of man.
>
> Perhaps the Garden of Eden is not so different from Earth as it
> appeared to our ancestors of some three or four million years ago,
> during a legendary golden age when the genus Homo was perfectly
> interwoven with the other beasts and vegetables. After the exile from
> Eden we find, in the biblical account, mankind condemned to death;
> hard work; clothing and modesty as preventatives of sexual
> stimulation; the dominance of men over women; the domestication of
> plants (Cain); the domestication of animals (Abel); and murder (Cain
> plus Abel). These all correspond reasonably well to the historical and
> archaeological evidence. In the Eden metaphor, there is no evidence of
> murder before the Fall. But those fractured skulls of bipeds not on
> the evolutionary line to man may be evidence that our ancestors
> killed, even in Eden, many manlike animals.
>
> Civilization develops not from Abel, but from Cain the murderer. The
> very word "civilization" derives from the Latin word for city. It is
> the leisure time, community organization and specialization of labor
> in the first cities that permitted the emergence of the arts and
> technologies we think of as the hallmarks of civilizations. The first
> city, according to Genesis, was constructed by Cain, the inventor of
> agriculture - a technology that requires a fixed abode. And it is his
> descendants, the sons of Lamech, who invent both "artifices in brass
> and iron" and musical instruments. Metallurgy and music-technology and
> art - are in the line from Cain. And the passions that lead to murder
> do not abate: Lamech says, "For I have slain a man for wounding me,
> and a young man for bruising me; if Cain shall be avenged sevenfold,
> truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold." The connection between murder and
> invention has been with us ever since. Both derive from agriculture
> and civilization.
> 
> *- Carl Sagan, The Dragons of Eden*

> Thus the frontal lobes may be involved with peculiarly human functions
> in two different ways. If they control anticipation of the future,
> they must also be the sites of concern, the locales of worry. This is
> why transection of the frontal lobes reduces anxiety. But prefrontal
> lobotomy must also greatly reduce the patient's capacity to be human.
>
> The price we pay for anticipation of the future is anxiety about it.
> 
> *- Carl Sagan, The Dragons of Eden*

> In bed, they made love. Love doesn't just sit there, like a stone, it
> has to be made, like bread; re-made all the time, made new. When it
> was made, they lay in each other's arms, holding love, asleep.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven*

> She eyed him with curiosity. He stood and endured reality.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven*

> There is a bird in a poem by T. S. Eliot who says that mankind cannot
> bear very much reality; but the bird is mistaken. A man can endure the
> entire weight of the universe for eighty years. It is unreality that
> he cannot bear.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven*

> The quality of the will to power is, precisely, growth. Achievement is
> its cancellation. To be, the will to power must increase with each
> fulfillment, making the fulfillment only a step to a further one. The
> vaster the power gained, the vaster the appetite for more.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven*

> Things don't have purposes, as if the universe were a machine, where
> every part has a useful function. What's the function of a galaxy? I
> don't know if our life has a purpose and I don't see that it matters.
> What does matter is that we're a part.
>
> Like a thread in a cloth or a grass-blade in a field. It is and we
> are. What we do is like wind blowing on the grass.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven*

> Of course, Haber thought, a man who saw a miracle would reject his
> eyes' witness, if those with him saw nothing.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven*

> He thought, I am living in a nightmare, from which from time to time I
> wake in sleep.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven*

> Current-borne, wave-flung, tugged hugely by the whole might of ocean,
> the jellyfish drifts in the tidal abyss. The light shines through it,
> and the dark enters it. Borne, flung, tugged from anywhere to
> anywhere, for in the deep sea there is no compass but nearer and
> farther, higher and lower, the jellyfish hangs and sways; pulses move
> slight and quick within it, as the vast diurnal pulses beat in the
> moondriven sea. Hanging, swaying, pulsing, the most vulnerable and
> insubstantial creature, it has for its defense the violence and power
> of the whole ocean, to which it has entrusted its being, its going,
> and its will.\*
>
> But here rise the stubborn continents. The shelves of gravel and the
> cliffs of rock break from water baldly into air, that dry, terrible
> outerspace of radiance and instability, where there is no support for
> life. And now, now the currents mislead and the waves betray, breaking
> their endless circle, to leap up in loud foam against rock and air,
> breaking\....
>
> What will the creature made all of seadrift do on the dry sand of
> daylight; what will the mind do, each morning, waking?
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven*

> How does one hate a country, or love one?
>
> ...I know people, I know towns, farms, hills and rivers and rocks, I
> know how the sun at sunset in autumn falls on the side of a certain
> plowland in the hills; but what is the sense of giving a boundary to
> all that, of giving it a name and ceasing to love where the name
> ceases to apply? What is love of one's country; is it hate of one's
> uncountry? Then it's not a good thing. Is it simply self-love? That's
> a good thing, but one mustn't make a virtue of it, or a profession.
> Insofar as I love life, I love the hills of the Domain of Estre, but
> that sort of love does not have a boundary-line of hate. And beyond
> that, I am ignorant. I hope"
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness*

> Like all the King's House this room was high, red, old, bare, with a
> musty chill on the air as if the drafts blew in not from other rooms
> but from other centuries.
> 
> *- Ursula Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness*

> It is curious - but you cannot make a revolution without honest men.
> The instinct of the populace is infallible. Every revolution has had
> its honest men. They are soon disposed off afterwards.
> 
> *- Agatha Christie, The Secret Adversary*

> Youth is a failing only too easily outgrown.
> 
> *- Agatha Christie, The Secret Adversary*

> Tuppence was ushered into a room on the right of the long passage. A
> woman was standing by the fire-place. She was no longer in her first
> youth, and the beauty she undeniably possessed was hardened and
> coarsened. In her youth, she must have been dazzling. Her pale gold
> hair, owing a slight assistance to art, was coiled low on her neck,
> her eyes, of a piercing electric blue, seemed to possess a faculty of
> boring into the very soul of the person she was looking at.
>
> And yet, despite her swaying grace, and the almost ethereal beauty of
> her face, you felt instinctively the presence of something hard and
> menacing, a kind of metallic strength that found expression in the
> tones of her voice and in that gimlet-like quality of her eyes.
> 
> *- Agatha Christie, The Secret Adversary*

> Look inwards, for a moment, and consider the contents of your mind. In
> the course of an ordinary day, you'll think a huge number of different
> thoughts. You might believe it's Thursday morning, deny that it's too
> late to catch the train, expect the coffee shop to be open, want the
> queue to be shorter, wish the guy in front of you would hurry up, hope
> it's not now too late to catch the train, suspect that the guy in
> front of you is an idiot, wonder why you thought you had time for
> coffee when clearly only a fool would risk missing the train and now
> you'll never make it, what people are going to think about you showing
> up late, and so on, for the many hurried moments of your conscious
> life.
>
> Maybe what makes you think about coffee in the first place is another
> thing in your head, a feeling of tiredness that gets your attention
> over and above the other bodily sensations you have, all the pains,
> tickles, twinges and itches and what ever else you might feel.
> Colouring all this are other things, not quite thoughts or bodily
> feelings, but emotions like love, anger, regret and happiness. Of
> course, there's also the passing show, the perceptual experiences you
> have when your sense organs bump into the world - all the sights,
> sounds, tastes, touches and smells that come together to immerse you
> in a three-dimensional picture of everything around you. All the while
> you remember some things, imagine others, daydream, wonder, plan, and
> generally get on with your inner life. In doing all this you might
> notice another something at the centre of it all: you, or at least the
> sense that you're doing all the thinking and feeling and seeing and
> everything else.
>
> But what is all this mental reality? It's not just you, but a lot of
> world - every person and every creature with a point of view. Is a
> thought another thing like a book or a boat, or is it an entirely
> different sort of something? How do thoughts fit in to the physical
> world? Is it right to think of mental things as really real, or is it
> all somehow reducible to the physical world of particles and forces?
> Philosophers zero in on all this with two questions. What is a mind?
> And what is the relationship between mind and body?
> 
> *- James Garvey, The Story of Philosophy*

> The greater part of human activity is designed to make permanent those
> experiences and joys which are only lovable because they are changing.
> Music is a delight because of its rhythm and flow. Yet the moment you
> arrest the flow and prolong a note or chord beyond its time, the
> rhythm is destroyed. Because life is likewise a flowing process,
> change and death are its necessary parts. To work for their exclusion
> is to work against life.
> 
> *- Alan Watts, The Wisdom of Insecurity*

> For the animal to be happy it is enough that this moment be enjoyable.
> But man is hardly satisfied with this at all. He is much more
> concerned to have enjoyable memories and expectations --- especially
> the latter. With these assured, he can put up with an extremely
> miserable present. Without this assurance, he can be extremely
> miserable in the midst of immediate physical pleasure.
> 
> *- Alan Watts, The Wisdom of Insecurity*

> The power of memories and expectations is such that for most human
> beings the past and the future are not as real, but more real than the
> present. The present cannot be lived happily unless the past has been
> "cleared up" and the future is bright with promise.
> 
> *- Alan Watts, The Wisdom of Insecurity*

> What we have forgotten is that thoughts and words are conventions, and
> that it is fatal to take conventions too seriously. A convention is a
> social convenience, as, for example, money. Money gets rid of the
> inconveniences of barter. But it is absurd to take money too
> seriously, to confuse it with real wealth, because it will do you no
> good to eat it or wear it for clothing. Money is more or less static,
> for gold, silver, strong paper, or a bank balance can "stay put" for a
> long time. But real wealth, such as food, is perishable. Thus a
> community may possess all the gold in the world, but if it does not
> farm its crops it will starve.
> 
> *- Alan Watts, The Wisdom of Insecurity*

> It is convention alone which persuades me that I am simply this body
> bounded by a skin in space, and by birth and death in time.
>
> Where do I begin and end in space? I have relations to the sun and air
> which are just as vital parts of my existence as my heart. The
> movement in which I am a pattern or convolution began incalculable
> ages before the (conventionally isolated) event called birth, and will
> continue long after the event called death. Only words and conventions
> can isolate us from the entirely undefinable something which is
> everything.
> 
> *- Alan Watts, The Wisdom of Insecurity*

> Thus the "brainy" economy designed to produce this happiness is a
> fantastic vicious circle which must either manufacture more and more
> pleasures or collapse---providing a constant titillation of the ears,
> eyes, and nerve ends with incessant streams of almost inescapable
> noise and visual distractions. The perfect "subject" for the aims of
> this economy is the person who continuously itches his ears with the
> radio, preferably using the portable kind which can go with him at all
> hours and in all places. His eyes flit without rest from television
> screen, to newspaper, to magazine, keeping him in a sort of
> orgasm-with-out-release through a series of teasing glimpses of shiny
> automobiles, shiny female bodies, and other sensuous surfaces,
> interspersed with such restorers of sensitivity---shock
> treatments---as "human interest" shots of criminals, mangled bodies,
> wrecked airplanes, prize fights, and burning buildings. The literature
> or discourse that goes along with this is similarly manufactured to
> tease without satisfaction, to replace every partial gratification
> with a new desire.
> 
> *- Alan Watts, The Wisdom of Insecurity*

> The mystery of life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to be
> experienced.
> 
> *- Alan Watts, The Wisdom of Insecurity*

> How long have the planets been circling the sun? Are they getting
> anywhere, and do they go faster and faster in order to arrive? How
> often has the spring returned to the earth? Does it come faster and
> fancier every year, to be sure to be better than last spring, and to
> hurry on its way to the spring that shall out-spring all springs?
>
> The meaning and purpose of dancing is the dance. Like music, also, it
> is fulfilled in each moment of its course. You do not play a sonata in
> order to reach the final chord, and if the meanings of things were
> simply in ends, composers would write nothing but finales.
> 
> *- Alan Watts, The Wisdom of Insecurity*

> We are going to die, and that makes us the lucky ones. Most people are
> never going to die because they are never going to be born. The
> potential people who could have been here in my place but who will in
> fact never see the light of day outnumber the sand grains of Arabia.
> Certainly those unborn ghosts include greater poets than Keats,
> scientists greater than Newton. We know this because the set of
> possible people allowed by our DNA so massively exceeds the set of
> actual people.
>
> In the teeth of these stupefying odds it is you and I, in our
> ordinariness, that are here.
> 
> *- Richard Dawkins, Unweaving the Rainbow*

> If everything is judged by how 'useful' it is - useful for staying
> alive, that is, we are left facing a futile circularity. There must be
> some added value. At least a part of life should be devoted to living
> that life, not just working to stop it ending.
> 
> *- Richard Dawkins, Unweaving the Rainbow*

> We have an appetite for wonder, a poetic appetite, which real science
> ought to be feeding but which is being hijacked, often for monetary
> gain, by purveyors of superstition, the paranormal and astrology.
> Resonant phrases like 'the Fourth House of the Age of Aquarius', or
> 'Neptune went retrograde and moved into Sagittarius' whip up a bogus
> romance which, to the naïve and impressionable, is almost
> indistinguishable from authentic scientific poetry.
> 
> *- Richard Dawkins, Unweaving the Rainbow*

> In another Japanese Buddhist fable, two traveling Zen monks were about
> to wade across a river when a young woman asked them to carry her over
> the swift water. Both of these monks had taken advanced vows and were
> not permitted to touch women, but without hesitation the older monk
> lifted her up, put her on his back, and walked across. When they
> reached the other side, he let the woman down and, without any small
> talk, walked away. A few hours later the younger monk blurted out,
> "Aren't we monks? Why did you carry that woman?"
>
> The older monk replied, "I put her down a long time ago. Why are you
> still carrying her?"
> 
> *- Dzongsar Jamyang Khyentse, What Makes You Not A Budhhist*

> Most images of the Buddha show him in the posture of sitting
> meditation, in the particular attitude known as padmasana, the posture
> of the lotus, with the legs crossed and the feet resting, soles
> upward, upon the thighs.
>
> Sitting meditation is not, as is often supposed, a spiritual
> "exercise," a practice followed for some ulterior object. From a
> Buddhist standpoint, it is simply the proper way to sit, and it seems
> perfectly natural to remain sitting so long as there is nothing else
> to be done, and so long as one is not consumed with nervous agitation.
> To the restless temperament of the West, sitting meditation may seem
> to be an unpleasant discipline, because we do not seem to be able to
> sit "just to sit" without qualms of conscience, without feeling that
> we ought to be doing something more important to justify our
> existence. To propitiate this restless conscience, sitting meditation
> must therefore be regarded as an exercise, a discipline with an
> ulterior motive. Yet at that very point it ceases to be meditation
> (dhyana) in the Buddhist sense, for where there is purpose, where
> there is seeking and grasping for results, there is no dhyana.
> 
> *- Dzongsar Jamyang Khyentse, What Makes You Not A Budhhist*
