---
title: The Fog and the Self
tags: ["post", "essay", "philosophy"]
layout: post
permalink: "/post/{{ title | slugify }}/"
---
Sometimes, in life, there is a fog around you. It's like you're riding
on a highway and the weather is changing every few miles. The most
common weather seems to be - well, I would say gloomy thunderstorms, but
that's a weather I actually enjoy. Any weather that should be horrible -
that society considers horrible - is something my lachesism makes me
love.

But the predominent season experienced in this highway of life is a...
let's call it a fog. The most uninteresting fog you can think of. It's
not even a cool, comforting fog. It is an uncomfortably warm and humid
fog that stops you from seeing anything beyond a few meters. The clouds,
mountains, fields and flowers all become memories. For the next few
miles your world is one of abstractions, where every beautiful thing the
books and the poems insist exist, are just memories in your mind.

The fog has an insiduous grip on your mind. You find yourself slipping
into that spiral of thought which wants to convince you that a fog is
all there is. That beautiful things are dimly twinkling stars, sparsely
scattered across a light-polluted grey-black sky. That the world is
mostly fog, the highway is mostly fog, and life is mostly fog. What even
is the point of driving?

These paragraphs are a fog. Whether or not this fog clears up by the end
of the essay depends upon whether I was writing this when I was in a fog
in life or in a clearing. At the moment, a clearing passed by recently -
it's memory is fresh in my mind. This small patch appeared to be
clearing, but then it got denser again, and hope seems to be slipping
away. That's what these words will probably seem to be doing as well -
still optimistic about the good times, but slowly losing hope to see
mountains again.

Why? Why do we ask 'why'? Does knowing 'why' help in any practical
sense? Does practicality help? Do we even need help?

Do we even need help?

Self-help seems to advise you newer and fancier ways to flail about your
arms to move the fog away, but, it obviously doesn't help. The fog comes
when it pleases and goes when it pleases.

Conventional wisdom says the coming and going of the fog is the one
thing about the world that can be counted upon - whether you keep moving
or whether you stand still trying to fix nothing. The fog, however
dense, is always in motion, and a clearance is always on the way. And
every clearance, not matter how brilliant and crisp, is always
temporary, with a wall of the fog always on the way.

How can intellectual abstractions of the ephemerality of states be the
respite in a model of the world insistent on grounded mindfulness?

The roadside flowers that were mere foregrounds in good times, but are
now all we can see, and the once blinding sun that now looks like a dim
bleached moon behind the fog, should act as anchors for a beautiful
world temporarily hidden from us. Seeing them as anchors and cultivating
an appreciation for them is perhaps the endgame of a life lived in a
recognition of suffering juxtaposed with the inability to do anything
about it, while succesfully managing to not succumb to delusional,
overcompensatory and unnecessary cynicism.

Anchors and hope. Are they all we need?

Do we need anything at all?

Cats and dogs don't care. Continued memory from which we can derive
abstractions is our curse. Maintaining or predicting things to always be
the way they are (or the way they should be) is our curse. Animals are
equally sad in the fog and happy in the clearance, regardless of how
many times the weather changes. This cannot be because of an
understanding of change being constant in life - they do not have the
intellect to do so, as far as we know.

Perhaps that's exactly why they are unable to be anything but mindful -
they have no sense of themself that continues to exist when the weather
changes.

When the fog comes, we think "I am sad", and since the concept of "I" is
so enduring, it seems to have some emotional inertia after the fog
clears. The "I" continues to be sad, and needs mental effort to switch
gears. Then, when the fog returns, the "I" resists the change and tries
to hold on to the images of the beauty it witnessed. The "I" wants to be
preserved, wants to be constantly reminded that there are still links to
that beauty, links to that outside world inside this fog. The flowers
and the puny mindfulness and the pathetic attempts to flail away the fog
immediately around us are done to feel like there is something getting
preserved.

Unintelligent animals are two abstract entities - the subject and the
experience. Humans maintain three - the subject, the experiencer and the
experience. For some reason, we are unable to let go of the
experiencer - everything that happens in life happens to this image of
who we are rather than directly to us. Nearly every horrific thing
humanity has done to itself has been out of this attempt to preserve
something that doesn't really exist - nationality, religion, cast,
legacy - and now, in our self-critical capitalist society, all the
self-preservation has gotten focused inward. We are constantly taking
care of ourselves, all the time. Rather than being sticks of calcium
with lumps of meat being controlled by electric jelly, directly
interacting with and being a part of the world, we come up with an
intermediary - an abstraction of our idea of ourselves that is
interacting with the world which needs to be strong and enduring and in
need of preservation. When I mentioned the sticks and meat and jelly
above, the entity that you pictured as experiencing the world and
conjuring up the "I", *is, in fact, the "I".* We *are* the world. There
is no experiencer. *"We are the universe experiencing Itself."*

All of these words are ideas and abstractions too. Abstractions have led
us to do some wonderful and some terrible things. Abstractions about the
world are great. Abstractions about oneself - not so much. They cause
more harm than anything else. I wish one could remember this fact as
easily as one remembers their name, and call upon it each time we catch
ourselves abstracting. There needs to be some way of disengaging our
identity and experiencing in a direct manner. Hopefully, that this
outlook itself at least exists, albeit in abstraction, should be a good
start.