---
title: Wonka - Delightful Portrayal of Healthy Masculinity
tags: ['post', 'masculinity', 'film']
layout: post
permalink: "/post/{{ title | slugify }}/"
header_image: "/media/headers/wonka.png"
date: 2023-12-15
---

Popular media today has plenty examples of toxic masculinity as well as
toxic femininity; the latter being mostly just internalised misogyny.
There's been a significant rise in recent years of more feminist content
(which, honestly, should just be considered regular content), portraying
strong and healthy female characters.

What is sorely lacking, however, is a portrayal of a healthy
masculinity. It exists, but is extemely rare. Men are often portrayed to
have a surplus of machismo, anger, rage and irrational decision-making
romanticised as masculinity. When male characters are shown to be taking
sensible, rational decisions, they are portrayed to be a side-character,
often used for comic-relief. This character is usually framed as a
buzzkill or a doormat that people walk over, only for the protagonist to
come in and save the day.

Now, healthy masculinity isn't non-existent. My favorite examples of
healthy portrayals of masculinity come from MIchael Schur's shows:
**Parks and Recreation, Brooklyn Nine-NIne** and **The Good Place,** for
example. **Adam Scott's Ben Wyatt** in **Parks in Recreation** is one of
my favorite portrayals of healthy introversion in popular media: a geeky
introverted person who is not a bumbling idiot but actually a
well-integrated individual, with just as many strengths and flaws as any
other character - well-qualified with a solid job and a stable love
life. Introversion and geekiness just happen to be certain parts of his
personality.

A while ago I stumbled across this amazing video: [The Fantastic
Masculinity of Newt
Scamander.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C4kuR1gyOeQ) It is well-made
video essay about Newt Scamander - the protagonist of **Fantastic Beasts
and Where to Find Them,** and how unusual it is to have a male lead hero
in an fantasy action adventure thriller to be kind and sensitive, and
who's strength comes from his empathy and love for everyone in general
and animals in particular.

Timoth√©e Chalamet's character in **Wonka (2023)** reminded me of the
same. It was pleasantly surprising to see the male lead of a fantasy
movie be portrayed as kind and loving, without compromising on his
confidence, agency or respect. It is refreshing to see, and in my
opinion, quite necessary.

Popular media should not settle merely for criticism of toxicity. It's a
good start, but not enough. What we need is big budget mainstream
portrayals of what of what it's like to be kind, sensitive, caring,
loving and vulnerable, without compromising on ambition, confidence and
the ability to affect change. **Wonka** is not without it's flaws, but I
greatly appreciate it, just like **Fantastic Beasts,** to show that the
aforementioned qualities can not just co-exist, but that their
co-existence can actually be a strength if nurtured and expressed well.